# Overview of tools to help you with smart contracts

Here we have collected all tools that you can use to either interact with the blockchain. The tools can be used either
to locally test smart contracts, use the command line interface to interact with the blockhchain or use the abi codegen
to help you integrate the blockchain with your own applications.

## The browser

## Partisia contract extensions

The Partisia contract we use to build and compile smart contracts consists of multiple extensions that can help you
interact with the blockchain or understanding smart contracts. All tools are documented as part of it, try and run the
commands and see what is possible inside them. Below is a quick introduction to what the different extensions can help
you accomplish.

### `cargo partisia-contract abi`

This extension is focused around helping you understand abi actions and helping understand a contracts input needs.
Using `cargo partisa-contract abi show` you can see information about a compiled contracts state, init, actions and
variables. Its a quick way to figure out shortnames for existing contracts by using the optional arguments.

### `cargo partisia-contract abi codegen`

Codegen can provide autogenerated code in both Java & TypeScript. The autogenerated code is to provide methods to
interact with actions inside a smart contract. We recommend you
follow [the readme here](https://gitlab.com/secata/pbc/language/abi/abi-client/-/tree/main/maven-plugin?ref_type=heads)
to automate your usage of abi codegen.

Abi codegen can also be used manually. Heres an example of how:
`cargo partisia-contract abi codegen --java mySmartContract/target/wasm32-unknown-unknown/release/token_contract.abi mySmartContract/AutogeneratedCode/token_contract.java`

### `cargo partisia-contract cli`
cli is a command-line interface for you to interact with the blockchain. 

To start using the CLI you can try minting some test_coin with the following command:
`cargo partisia-contract cli tx action 02c14c29b2697f3c983ada0ee7fac83f8a937e2ecd feed_me [PublicAddressYouWantMintToGoTo] --gas 60000 --privatekey=PathToPrivatekeyFile`

If you need the above specification for the tx you can type: `cargo partisia-contract cli tx action`

Want to explore more possibilities? You can go visit the cli-execution-reference-tests to see example usage of [the CLI tool](https://gitlab.com/partisiablockchain/language/partisia-cli/-/tree/main/src/test/resources/cli-execution-reference-tests?ref_type=heads) 
You can look in the commandline.sh that is placed within each test folder to understand the multitude of applications this tool can have. 

## The test framework
In the [example contracts](https://gitlab.com/partisiablockchain/language/example-contracts), we have tests, to show the behaviour for all the contracts. These tests are written in
Java, using our testing framework Junit-contract-test. In the test we are provided a blockchain object, where we can
deploy and interact with multiple different contracts. You can see how to create your own tests by visiting this article: Insert link to Jens docs.

## Zk client

## Example client

git clone git@gitlab.com:secata/pbc/language/example-contracts.git

cargo partisia-contract build --release

cargo partisa-contract abi show

Browser interaction

Send input with ZK client

cargo partisia-contract cli tx action 036ad91c23b513299d86b7d4d740dd6564c9ff1e91 start_vote_counting --privatekey ~
/aa.pk

mvn test -Dtest=ZkVotingSimpleTest

Use abi codegen from here:
cargo partisia-contract abi codegen --java target/wasm32-unknown-unknown/release/zk_voting_simple.abi
target/zk_simple_voting.java