# Overview of tools to help you work with smart contracts

This article introduces tools that you can use to interact with the blockchain. The tools can be used
to test smart contracts, use the command line interface to interact with the blockchain or
to help you integrate the blockchain with your own applications.

## The browser
The browser is a website that translates the blockchain to a web application. This helps a developer when creating smart contracts to get insights into the transactions they are sending or keeping track of your deployed contracts. 

The browser has two versions: 
[Testnet version](https://browser.testnet.partisiablockchain.com)
[Mainnet version](https://browser.partisiablockchain.com)

## Partisia contract extensions

The Partisia contract we use to build and compile smart contracts consists of multiple extensions that can help you
interact with the blockchain or understanding smart contracts. All tools are documented as part of it, try and run the
commands and see what is possible inside them. Below is a quick introduction to what the different extensions can help
you accomplish.

### `cargo partisia-contract abi`

This extension is focused around helping you understand abi actions and helping understand a contracts input needs.
Using `cargo partisa-contract abi show` you can see information about a compiled contracts state, init, actions and
variables. Its a quick way to figure out shortnames for existing contracts by using the optional arguments. This is essentially the cargo partisia contract tool using the below [abi-client](#abi-client).

Example command: `cargo partisia-contract abi show mySmartContract/target/wasm32-unknown-unknown/release/auction.abi`

### `cargo partisia-contract abi codegen`

Codegen can provide autogenerated code in both Java & TypeScript. The autogenerated code is to provide methods to
interact with actions inside a smart contract. We recommend you
follow [the readme here](https://gitlab.com/secata/pbc/language/abi/abi-client/-/tree/main/maven-plugin?ref_type=heads)
to automate your usage of abi codegen.

Abi codegen can also be used manually. Here is an example of how:
`cargo partisia-contract abi codegen --java mySmartContract/target/wasm32-unknown-unknown/release/auction.abi mySmartContract/AutogeneratedCode/auction.java`

### `cargo partisia-contract cli`

cli is a command-line interface for you to interact with the blockchain.

To start using the CLI you can try minting some test_coin with the following command:
`cargo partisia-contract cli tx action 02c14c29b2697f3c983ada0ee7fac83f8a937e2ecd feed_me [PublicAddressYouWantMintToGoTo] --gas 60000 --privatekey=PathToPrivatekeyFile`

If you need the above specification for the tx you can type: `cargo partisia-contract cli tx action`

Want to explore more possibilities? You can go visit the cli-execution-reference-tests to see example usage
of [the CLI tool](https://gitlab.com/partisiablockchain/language/partisia-cli/-/tree/main/src/test/resources/cli-execution-reference-tests?ref_type=heads)
You can look in the commandline.sh that is placed within each test folder to understand the multitude of applications
this tool can have.

## abi-client

Our Smart Contract Binary Interface Client Library helps you interact with the blockchain through code. If you need a
serverside way of using the blockchain to deploy contracts or create transactions on your behalf this is a standard
binary interface for that usecase. The abi-client has two
versions, [one made for java](https://gitlab.com/partisiablockchain/language/abi/abi-client/-/tree/main?ref_type=heads)
and [one made for TypeScript](https://gitlab.com/partisiablockchain/language/abi/abi-client-ts).

When using the abi-client we generally recommend using codegen when possible, since this interaction level with the
blockchain is easier to understand and use as a plug and play method. The abi-client shines in itself when using it only
to read from contracts that is not necessarily linked to a specific contract.

We have created an [example client](#example-client) to showcase a way of working with such integrations.

## zk-client

Enables the generation
of [rpc](https://partisiablockchain.gitlab.io/documentation/smart-contracts/smart-contract-binary-formats.html#rpc-binary-format)
for ZK inputs. We have a two versions of the
zk-client, [one made for java](https://gitlab.com/partisiablockchain/language/abi/zk-client/)
and [one made for TypeScript](https://gitlab.com/partisiablockchain/language/abi/zk-client-ts). This client is here to
help you interact with the blockchain through code integrations. You can visit the tests inside the projects to see how
it works and start from there.

## Example client

The example client comes in two versions, [a java example](https://gitlab.com/secata/pbc/language/example-client)
and [a TypeScript example](https://gitlab.com/secata/pbc/language/example-web-client). The examples shows how to use the
abi-client to interact with the blockchain. 
