# How are specific transactions validated added to a block and executed

When you use an app to facilitate a transaction on the blockchain the transaction is first checked for validity, this means living up to four conditions relating to signature, solvency of account, matching of nonce and expiration time. The conditions are specified [here](transactions.md). If the transaction is valid then it is put in a package with other incoming transactions called a block. This is done by a node chosen for the task, this node is referred to as the block proposer or sequencer. The proposer executes all transactions in the block and then send it to all immediate connected nodes for further execution. This way of spreading the information in the network is called flooding. When a node as executed all transactions in a block, it sends a proof of verification (information resulting from successful execution) to its sender node and signs the block. After a node has executed a block and sent proof to the sender, the process repeats and the node sends the block to its own connections and wait for proof of verification. When the block has been executed signed by a 2/3 majority constituting a proof of justification (PoJ), next block is introduced, when that block has been through the same process and a new (PoJ) is achieved, then original block is said to be finalized, meaning it cannot be rolled back. In other words, it is on an immutable record. In our example of buying an NFT, this would mean that there is a timestamped unchangeable record of that purchase, proving the ownership.  
